Let's discuss plagiarism and
how to avoid it.
Your first question may be,
what is plagiarism?
Columbia University defines plagiarism
as the use of words, phrases, or ideas
belonging to another, without properly
citing or acknowledging the source.
The important part of this sentence is the
second half, without properly citing or
acknowledging the source.
We all refer to other people's work when
writing our own papers or articles, but
it is imperative that we cite
where those references came from.
This presentation will
cover the following topics.
Why do we cite sources?
What are the different
types of plagiarism?
What is a citation?
And when do you actually
cite your sources?
What are the different types of citations?
What are the best practices for
paraphrasing?
And how to cite sources.
Then we'll cover a brief introduction
on how to organize your citations and
then summarize everything
we have discussed.
To begin, we will talk about why
we cite sources and how to do so.
Citing sources is more than
just about avoiding plagiarism.
Acknowledging original sources
gives credit where credit is due.
By citing sources, you uphold intellectual
honesty and academic integrity.
Locating those references at the end of
your paper provides the full citation for
the original article so
readers can refer to the original source.
It also becomes easier to organize and
track your research process.
Notice the nice layout of citations
at the end of this paper.
It is easy to locate each
reference in this article, and
to look up the full text
of the original sources.
Properly citing aids in citation analysis
or tracking the citation metrics.
This number, 98, refers to the times this
article has been cited in other places.
Citation metrics can be important for
academic respect or job promotions.
Proper citations allow this number
to be calculated with accuracy.
There are many added benefits
to you as a researcher,
more than just doing the right thing.
Pointing out which portions of your paper
are citations distinguishes your original
ideas, while demonstrating your
understanding of the existing literature.
Incorporating current literature
into your work supports your ideas,
and shows how your work connects to and
continues the work that has gone before.
Providing proper citations enables your
readers to learn more by consulting your
sources.
You are able to lay claim to
credibility and authority for
your work and
your place in the intellectual community
by comparing the current
literature on the topic at hand.
There are two types of plagiarism,
intentional and unintentional.
Intentional plagiarism means you
know you are plagiarizing and
you do not try to avoid it.
This can mean you attempt
to cite your sources, but
you do not bother to cite them
using a proper citation style.
This is often seen as someone listing
a website where a quote came from but
no other information about the source
such as the date or author.
The worst type of intentional plagiarism
is trying to pass someone else's work off
as your own.
You are essentially stealing
someone else's ideas by doing this.
You are doing yourself a disservice
because you do not learn anything new
if you do not do your own work.
To avoid intentional plagiarism,
always cite your sources and
do so using proper citation styles.
Unintentional plagiarism
is a bit stickier.
You may have used the proper citation
style for your bibliography, but
you forgot the in-text citations.
You may have attempted to paraphrase
that citation, but you did so poorly.
You may have forgotten quotation
marks around a direct citation.
Sometimes you forget to mark in your notes
whether an idea you jotted down was your
own or from something you read.
You may accidentally use
this in your paper and
not cite it thinking it was your own idea.
These are all types of unintentional
plagiarism, but they are still plagiarism.
They best way to avoid unintentional
plagiarism is to take your time and
stay organized during
the research process.
You may now be asking
yourself what is a citation?
A citation is a reference to a source.
This is an example of a citation in
APA Style for a journal article.
The format for the citation you will be
using depends on the style required and
the format of the resource you used,
such as a book chapter or journal article.
The style may be dictated by the professor
you are doing an assignment for, or
a journal you are submitting
an article to.
Make sure you are using the correct
citation style requested.
For example,
electrical engineering professors may
require you to use the IEEE Style Guide.
Or if you are submitting a paper
to a journal such as Science,
the journal may require you
to use their style guide.
Be sure to inquire if a specific
citation style is required for
any paper or assignment.
You may be confused about when you
actually need to cite your sources.
You always need to cite whenever you
use any external sources in your work.
If you include anything that is
not your own original thought,
you must cite where the idea originated.
You have to cite facts that
are not common knowledge.
For example,
the sentence the Moon orbits the Earth is
a fact that does not need to be cited.
However, the claim that American chestnut
trees are nearly extinct may seem
like fact, but needs to be supported by
a reference as it is not common knowledge.
You have to site code that
you did not create yourself.
You have to site any paper you wrote for
a previous assignment or
an article that was previously published.
Self-plagiarism is plagiarism too.